>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now we need to
fix this because we still have shared
mutable state.
And so
I was talking about this on the break,
that,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Shared state is
totally fine, we have to share state.
I mean, when you cross down from
the server and you're getting state,
you're sharing it.
Mutable state is totally fine, eventually
you're going to have to mutate state.
Sure, mutable state is
the devil's playground, and
this is where things go to cause
mischief in your application.
So if you want to share state,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Make it immutable.
But if you want to mutate state,
then isolate it so it's no longer shared.
And so
how we do this is I'm going to replace
project with we'll go with currentProject.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll save this,
so now it's currentProject.
And it's saying,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That
doesn't exist yet.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But in our component,
we're going to make
one small change.
We're gonna go here, currentProject,
and I could even,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Type this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let me move this down to the bottom.
So does anybody know what a setter is?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That setter or
a getter,
is you can either get a property or
set a property.
But it's actually tucked
behind that is a method.
And so now what we can do is go set value.
And from here, say this.currentProject =.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here it is,
we're hanging in the balance.
How do we keep this from
being shared mutable state?
>> Speaker 2: Copy by value and
not by reference, right?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right, so
you would make a copy of it.
So you create a local copy.
And so what we're doing
here is using Object.assign
is that we're saying take,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The value that
we passed in, and assign all innumerable
properties to this empty object.
Now you're no longer dealing
with application state, but
you're dealing with presentation state.
So you're taking something that's
shared across the application and
we're saying I want to
make a copy of this.
Now this is a fairly simple object.
So if you're doing deeply nested
objects that reference other objects,
that you could run into problems.
And you may need to use something
like Ramda or whatever.
But for most basic single depth objects,
this is not a problem.
So using Object.assign is it
takes this Object here, or
you could actually do multiple Objects.
Let's do all innumerable properties and
then assigned it to this Object here.
And so now when we save this,
anytime project is
updated via the binding,
is it's now creating a copy and
storing it as a local property.
And so
now whatever happens in this form is
no longer,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Shared.
It's certainly mutable,
but it's not shared.
Let me just double check, make sure.
Yes, currentProject exist, come on.
Let's go back here,
make sure that nothing is breaking.
Select this, now keep an eye over here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we fixed it here
but it's still happening over here.
So what I would do in this case,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is I'll create.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll go with,
I think its Title, originalTitle,
declare a new value here.
And I'll just say if there is a value
then let's set this
originalTitle to value.title.
And so now we're just creating,
again, taking this and
making it presentation state.
So now, even within the component,
extending this concept,
is we're saying because
we're mutating this.
And we could mutate the title
because it's shared in two places.
And so these are kinda these little
things that I want us to start
queuing on as we're building
applications that, hold on.
currentProject.title is here,
but it's also over here.
And because this is in ngModel,
this is mutable.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
what we'll do is we say okay,
if you're gonna be mutable,
then you can't share.
Remove it.
And so we'll go originalTitle,
like so, save it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
now when I go here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's
isolated from this, more importantly
that it's isolated from this as well.
Is if I were to cover to this up,
so let me just inspect.
And we went to here and
let's just say I deleted this element.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And I looked at this,
I'd have no idea what
the original object was.
What am I dealing with?
I don't know.
But by now creating a visual cue, so
this is just a UX thing, back to this,
I could completely delete this and
I still know I'm working.
And I have a visual
connection back to here.
Now what we can do is,
when this was mutable, and I went here and
I started changing something,
how would I undo that?
What if I'm like just kidding?
I don't wanna make this change.
Well, you've already mutated the object.
I mean, it's kind of like
peeing in the bath water.
You just cannot do that.
Whereas now you're creating separation.
And if you want to discard it,
you would just say not a problem.
I'm just going to cancel.
And you know what happens?
You just throw that object away.
You don't need it.
And so we'll go here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: emit.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did I not change
that back?
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I was trying to be so
helpful, my goodness.
Don't ever have four-year-olds and
seven-year-olds because you start talking
like that and you forget to revert back.
So, cancelled.emit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I don't really,
what I could do is just for
the sake of,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's say you wanted
to actually restore, I don't know
why I'm doing percentComplete,
let's go currentProject.
You want it to you
exited out of this form.
So if you've ever done long form
insurance applications, and
somebody's like I wanna cancel,
or I need to go do something.
And they need to come back,
you wanna restore state.
It probably would not hurt to
just grab this currentProject and
store it off somewhere.
So just as a matter of course,
I typically would send that
up to the parent component.
It can do whatever it wants.
But this child component
doesn't have to worry about it.
Are you caching, are you not?
Are you gonna restore it, who cares?
The child component doesn't care.
And then onto the form,
let's go submit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
saved.emit(selected,
not, currentProject.
At least it's not wahoo.